# ECE444-F2021-Lab6

This repository follows the TDD example in https://github.com/mjhea0/flaskr-tdd

## Test Driven Development Pros and Cons

Test Driven Development (TDD) is a very powerful methodology that can be used when developing software. TDD is abundant in development flows at large organizations. This is because it allows for the development of code that is tested, and can be reviewed easily. TDD empowers easier reviewing of code, as it ensures that the code is already adhering to unit tests. When managing large codebases, teams use test coverage as a metric to ensure that all of the code is acting as expected. When using TDD to develop, test coverage is expected to be high, as code should be developed to adhere to pre-written tests. The use of TDD generally increases a system's reliability, as development is defined by tests emulating the use of the code in a production environment.

It is important to note that, although powerfull, TDD can have negative effects on development as well. One issue with TDD is that developers write code to pass unit tests. Often, this tunnel-visions the developer to purely focus on getting their test suite to pass; resulting in ignorance towards other bugs and side effects that may not be covered within the pre-written tests. Another con of TDD is the slow development that comes along with it. While TDD is very useful in large codebases that already have working development pipelines, it can slow down the start of a project. This is because of the lack of creativity that TDD introduces, as well as the fact that "double" the code must be written when following TDD. Lastly, unit tests are not the only form of testing that should exist in a project. Unit tests are very good at testing independent modules in a system, but integration testing must be done before any code is merged. This is another con of TDD: developers can be lead astray by passing unit tests, assuming that the code is ready to go because all tests pass. In any system, integration/end-to-end testing is powerful, however, with TDD it is a necessity, as developers are less likely to manually perform tests since their unit tests are already passing.

To summarize, Test Driven Development is a powerful tool to ensure the stability and quality of code that is being added to a system. However, it comes with a large overhead for setup, and may not apply to the project (depending on the stage of the project). If an already existing codebase is running in a production environment, the pros of TDD highly benefit development. On the other hand, if a project is in it's early phases and design changes are frequent, developers may want to wait until later in the project lifecycle to implement or follow TDD.
